*CI/CD & Jenkins Interview Questions*

1. Please explain the CI/CD process that you have implemented in your organization.

2. Please explain the CI (Continuous Integration) part.

3. Please explain the CD (Continuous Deployment/Delivery) part.

4. What is ArgoCD? Why are we using ArgoCD for Continuous Deployment?

5. How do you find the Jenkins initialAdminPassword after installation?

6. How do you install the latest or available plugins in Jenkins?

7. Name a few plugins that you commonly use in Jenkins.

8. How do you store secrets or credentials securely in Jenkins?

9. How do you create users and groups in Jenkins?

10. What is the Security section in Jenkins used for?

11. How do you assign permissions to users in Jenkins?

12. How do you implement Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) in Jenkins?

13. How do you trigger a Jenkins job or pipeline automatically?

14. What are the different types of build triggers available in Jenkins?

15. What is Poll SCM build trigger in Jenkins?

16. What is Build Periodically trigger in Jenkins?

17. What is the purpose of "Build after other projects are built" option?

18. How do you fetch the Jenkinsfile from SCM (e.g., GitHub)?

19. Please write an example Jenkinsfile that you have implemented in your organization.

20. How do you take a backup of Jenkins (jobs, configuration, etc.)?

21. What is a Shared Library in Jenkins and why is it used?

22. How do you add slave nodes (agents) to Jenkins?

23. Why do we use Docker agents as Jenkins slaves?

24. How do you set up a highly available and scalable Jenkins infrastructure in AWS?

25. What is a multi-stage and multi-agent Jenkinsfile?

26. What is a parallel build in Jenkins? (HCL asked)

27. How do you configure a parameterized build in Jenkins? (HCL asked)

28. What is the difference between Snippet Generator and Declarative Generator in Jenkins? (HCL asked)

29. What does the schedule expression (H 5 * * *) mean in Jenkins? (HCL asked)

30. You had several failed pipeline jobs. After the developer updated the source code, the pipeline ran successfully. If you re-run one of the old failed jobs, will it pull the latest source code or use the original code from the previous run? (Asked by one software company)

